this shirt looks terrible on camera if
you're wondering why I always wear the
same couple of shirts when I film these
videos yeah partly it's because I'm as
poor as a Churchmouse but partly it's
because the other shirts I own they they
do not show up on camera you see what
hell it is to be a broadcaster anyway um
as many as 3 or 4 people asked me to
comment on the debate about veganism
between ask yourself and vote the vegan
aspect isn't that interesting
maybe the psychology of the left-wing
and the psychology of communist in the
21st century there's a little bit more
interesting to coming on here in just
three minutes
you get a condensed version of what I
think are the most salient elements of
that conversation just to be clear are
you actually saying that you think
people would be morally justified to
fund a Holocaust no I would say that I
do not know we have to agree there are
degrees of separation here for instance
obviously to kill a person unjustified
bad to fund a person killing someone
unjustified bad to buy a to buy a widget
from a corporation that uses its funds
to perpetuate like murder and such and
such it's bad yes but we've obviously
removed you wouldn't call that person a
murderer
so the question really is whether or not
there were enough degrees of separation
between say the right now the meat
factory industry the meat farming or say
slaves mining up lithium in the mines of
Africa if there's enough of a difference
between me and them that I can't be held
morally culpable right but the thing the
thing that I'm tripping out at right
this is what's weirding me out a bit so
when we talk about that human Holocaust
you seem to say that look the best thing
we can do is some kind of top-down
action so in the meantime let's all
support the Holocaust I mean I just
don't understand how why would it
supporting the Holocaust
I'm just one of billions of human beings
that have no choice but to participate
in an unethical trade if they want to do
it without things that they want if they
want to wait something they want and
what I want often is me
Darry it's really the same as capitalism
in this respect this is the problem here
and this is the difference between I
suppose I don't know are you a leftist
politically like I kind of call myself a
centrist to be honest well this is the
problem here this is this this exact
argument could be made for capitalist
industry but the end result of making
this argument is a society of people who
blame themselves for not doing enough to
oppose the the the selling power of
institutional unethical institutional
forces it doesn't work there and I don't
think it works for veganism don't you
think that a broader more efficacious
solution would be approaching this
top-down and just getting rid of corn
subsidies and putting forward a meat tax
so punitive that people can at first
barely afford to eat meat eat meat more
than like twice a month right so if you
talk about some top-down approach where
for example we just make it something
that's about as effective as it gets
surely but I don't know if my point came
across right so I went to the extreme
situation just to show that there is a
case where you'll say that the the
action of the people makes a difference
right and once you grant that which I
know you do then you're also in a
position where every step in that
direction has the same kind of positive
impact just not to the same degree and
then it's your choice if you want to be
a person who's making a step in that
positive direction or who's just funding
the Holocaust and the exact same
argument could be made about purchasing
commodities from a capitalist
institution the identical arguments what
so I'm not I'm not even sure what I'm to
take from that really like what it was
so what are you trying to like drive at
there the point that I'm making here is
that as a leftist I recognize that there
are institutional benefits not only to
taking top-down approaches towards these
problems but also to rejecting proposed
bottom-up solutions because they can
refocus blame and cause people to think
that individual action can be a solution
to institutional harm my mistake here is
that I'm trying to talk about a complex
sprawling topic
with focus and brevity so this is gonna
be compartmentalized into a few
statements on seemingly unrelated topics
but I swear there's one guiding thesis
here I spoke to a guy named Faraday
earlier today Faraday has a YouTube
channel called Faraday speaks and at one
point you know he just said honestly he
felt hopeless about Western liberal
democracy he felt like Western liberal
democracy is this unstable tinderbox and
it's either going to collapse into some
kind of right-wing dictatorship or it's
gonna collapse into some kind of left
with me Peter Schiff and of course it's
partly because he talks to people like
this all the time he talks to people
like a vouch communists and then talks
to people on the right wing who are just
as extreme and who seem to regard the
society as tremendously fragile and
about to be replaced by some kind of
dictatorship at any given moment a
dictatorship that's gonna carry out
their their fantasies now yeah I did say
to him I think reassuringly this is just
not so and I directed him to look at
real-world examples like Japan
real-world examples like Denmark
real-world examples like Switzerland
said him look Switzerland is not perfect
Switzerland is not paradise but the
point of politics the point of a
political order is not to create
paradise on this earth it would be a
tremendous accomplishment if the people
of Florida had a system of government
that works as well as the government of
Switzerland it would be a tremendous
accomplishment if the people of West
Virginia had the quality of education
and health care that people have in
Switzerland it would be an amazing
accomplishment if the people of West
Virginia had their had preserved their
indigenous languages the way Switzerland
preserved their indigenous language
they'd have universities for all the
different languages than Switzerland
that's a real priority for them
unlike the genocide --kw essay
photographers took video you know people
today do not seem to regard Switzerland
or Japan or
mark as inspirational and they clutch at
these these fantasies of another world
of another life you know in the
Christian Bible it says our faith is not
in things seen but in things unseen and
the faith of the Communists in this same
way it's not a faith in the things of
this world it's a faith in in this
bizarre inversion of reality and they
cling to that faith so passionately that
they don't want to let in any new ideas
or any new information that will
challenge that faith that'll upset their
faith in this perfect order that can be
brought about if only they have their
terrible revolution if only they replace
democracy with a dictatorship that will
carry out their fantasies so this guy
vouch is a bizarre illustration of that
where he says passionately that if he
had his way if his dictatorship of the
proletariat took over government if
democracy is replaced with his
dictatorship after a revolution then he
would carry out the vegan agenda he
would make meat illegal or he would end
the factory farming in the sphere or
something like this and he's so
committed to this fantasy that the
fantasy is worth more to him than the
reality the reality of the positive
change you can make in the real world
here and now and that positive change it
will never be as inspirational as the
the bizarre surreal fantasy of what
might be in some some parallel universe
or some some revolutionary future take a
step back here and you know draw your
attention to a really strange absence in
modern Western political discourse okay
why is there nobody in Parliament who is
elected by the poor who speaks for the
poor it's not a new idea now okay some
of you're gonna say Bernie Sanders no
Bernie Sanders speaks for one district
in Vermont that's the horse Bernie
Sanders job is not to speak for the poor
and that's why in the American system
house of Congress or the British system
house the Parliament there are no seats
signed for someone to represent the poor
in England they have special seats
assigned to represent Catholics there
are historical reasons for that there
was fear about the Catholics before
students own it's the most obvious thing
and guess what that's what they had in
ancient Rome in ancient Rome they had
Tribune's who were elected to represent
five classes of the plebs so the plebs
are remembered as the oppressed or
disadvantaged class in Rome in contrast
to the patricians but then the plebs
themselves were split into five
socio-economic strata there's the
richest of the rich the poorest of the
poor and three other strata in the
middle there and each of these levels of
poverty had Tribune's assigned them as
are called two Tribune's reach levels
that's ten tributes who were then
elected so the the tribunes for the
poorest of the poor were elected by the
poor and then they represented the
interests of the poor they advocated for
the poor they complained about whatever
the poor to complain about in Rome's
Senate in Rome's whole political system
it was much more complex than just the
Senate not worth getting to you kiddo
no why do we not have this in any
Western democracy today the American
system of government is naked Lee an
imitation of ancient Rome that's why
they call it a constitutional republic
and not a democracy there's a whole
history there why did we not have this
in any Western democracy day I'll tell
you why it's because left wingers were
too busy fantasizing about this
revolution promised to them by Karl Marx
they were so deeply committed to this
economic dream of a better world that's
going to be brought about by these
ridiculous methods I don't even want to
summarize here and there was no interest
in the simple humble pragmatic reality
of committing to making the positive
difference that you can okay and this is
the difference you can make all right so
this guy's out obviously you know on
some level he wants to make the world a
better place
well okay vouch um you
want to help people in Syria in the
Syrian civil war but you can't the
reason why veganism matter so much is
that this is what you can do this is the
difference you can make and you can make
it with no tremendous personal sacrifice
you don't have to fly to Syria you don't
have to expose yourself to the danger of
bullets and torture and arrest or
something you don't have to much for
anything all you have to do is when you
go to the grocery store instead of
buying cow milk you buy soy milk instead
of buying a chocolate bar that has milk
powder you buy the chocolate bar it's
dark chocolate that's vegan I mean you
know everybody who's has lactose
intolerance is already doing this you
make these small changes in your life
and this gives you an ethical position
to advocate for the type of top-down
legislative change you're talking about
without being a complete and utter
hypocrite doesn't that sound good but
tell me this I mean riddle me this um if
you think the problem with Western
capitalist democracy is that the poor
don't have a voice in government is the
poor don't have a voice in Parliament is
that the poor are not heard by the elite
who are in power wouldn't the practical
humble real-world solution to that be
give the poor a voice in government
couldn't you reserve ten the seats in
the American house of Congress and say
these are the seats for the tribunes
these are the seats for the
representatives of the poor would that
be so hard to do I've raised this in a
different context why is it in the whole
eastern United States of America you
never had seats in Congress to represent
the the indigenous people
Native Americans American Indians what
everyone say why couldn't you have some
elected representation for the most
oppressed people in this your country so
they at least have a voice they at least
have the ability to complain now there
are many other special classes of
society you probably do need
representation in government this
analysis may not end there but if your
ethical position is that the poor need a
voice in government why do you leave
to this fantasy of destroying the
government destroying the economy
destroying all the fundamental
assumptions of capitalism to replace the
government with the dictatorship of the
proletariat why do you lead to that as
opposed to solving the problem that was
there in the first place
giving the poor a voice in Parliament
which could be done with a very simple
reform with the stroke of a pen England
Canada the United States Australia all
of these parliamentary democracies they
could have seats in parliament for
people elected by the poor to represent
the interests of the poor and then those
seats would be contested elected
election by election I I really doubt
that communists like vouch would win
those elections I doubt it would be far
left people like you who'd get elected
by the poor as you know sometimes the
poor can convert in a very conservative
fashion in many of these countries but
regardless they would elect the people
they wanted to represent their
complaints and their concerns in problem
okay who is it today who would stand up
and give a voice to the animals in
Parliament who is it today when you're
talking about ecology who will stand up
and give a voice for the trees my
country Canada was completely based on
deforestation the way government handles
forestry forest management as they say
oh here's a pie let's talk about how
we're gonna divide up the pie and make
as much money out of it as possible
that's been the attitude of our country
since it was a British colony so we were
built on right it's a very deep-seated
attitude in government and in our elite
ruling class many of the wealthiest
families in Canada made their money out
of cutting down trees many of them still
do Athens are still Dom Tarr is still a
huge corporation in the stock market so
on and so forth all right in Parliament
who is a voice for the water who is a
voice for the air who is a voice for the
trees many of these fundamental concerns
are fundamentally not represented they
are in effect voiceless in a system of
parliament that developed
truth be told in England just as a way
of getting different tax paying
aristocrats together so that they could
settle their differences and hand over
all their money and horses to support
the king before the king went to war
that's how parliamentary democracy
evolved the United Kingdom it really
wasn't set up to represent or even deal
with broader social concerns definitely
not ecological concerns so on and so
forth so there's a real reason here to
call for reform in our political systems
but the mentality of the far left the
mentality of Communists and people on
the left wing is to ignore every
possibility for positive pragmatic
down-to-earth reform and to insist that
no the whole system is immoral the whole
system is a disaster and the only way
out is to have an even bigger disaster
to tear it all down and replace it with
a grubby military dictatorship their
so-called dictatorship of the
proletariat guys vouch illustrates how
this commitment to revolutionary and
authoritarian solutions to every problem
that's what he keeps saying talk down
upon his commitment is exactly what
makes the whole of the left-wing so hard
to convert to veganism what makes it so
difficult for vegans to find common
cause with and collaborate with left
wingers and communists
[Music]